



Automated Certificate Management Environment                  S. Heurich
Internet-Draft                                                    Fastly
Intended status: Standards Track                            H. Birge-Lee
Expires: 18 January 2027                           Crosslayer Labs, Inc.
                                                            M. Slaughter
                                                   Amazon Trust Services
                                                            17 July 2026


   Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) Challenge for
                  Persistent DNS TXT Record Validation
                   draft-ietf-acme-dns-persist-latest

Abstract

   This document specifies "dns-persist-01", a new validation method for
   the Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) protocol.
   This method allows a Certification Authority (CA) to verify control
   over a domain by confirming the presence of a persistent DNS TXT
   record containing CA and account identification information.  This
   method is particularly suited for environments where traditional
   challenge methods are impractical, such as multi-tenant hosting
   platforms, enterprise DNS environments, and IoT deployments.  The
   validation method is designed with a strong focus on security and
   robustness, incorporating widely adopted industry best practices for
   persistent domain control validation.  This design aims to make it
   suitable for Certification Authorities operating under various policy
   environments, including those that align with the CA/Browser Forum
   Baseline Requirements.

About This Document

   This note is to be removed before publishing as an RFC.

   Status information for this document may be found at
   https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/draft-ietf-acme-dns-persist/.

   Discussion of this document takes place on the Automated Certificate
   Management Environment Working Group mailing list
   (mailto:acme@ietf.org), which is archived at
   https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/browse/acme/.  Subscribe at
   https://www.ietf.org/mailman/listinfo/acme/.

   Source for this draft and an issue tracker can be found at
   https://github.com/ietf-wg-acme/draft-ietf-acme-dns-persist.

Status of This Memo

   This Internet-Draft is submitted in full conformance with the
   provisions of BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF).  Note that other groups may also distribute
   working documents as Internet-Drafts.  The list of current Internet-
   Drafts is at https://datatracker.ietf.org/drafts/current/.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   This Internet-Draft will expire on 18 January 2027.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (c) 2026 IETF Trust and the persons identified as the
   document authors.  All rights reserved.

   This document is subject to BCP 78 and the IETF Trust's Legal
   Provisions Relating to IETF Documents (https://trustee.ietf.org/
   license-info) in effect on the date of publication of this document.
   Please review these documents carefully, as they describe your rights
   and restrictions with respect to this document.  Code Components
   extracted from this document must include Revised BSD License text as
   described in Section 4.e of the Trust Legal Provisions and are
   provided without warranty as described in the Revised BSD License.

Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction
     1.1.  Robustness and Alignment with Industry Best Practices
   2.  Conventions and Definitions
   3.  The "dns-persist-01" Challenge
     3.1.  Challenge Object
   4.  Challenge Response and Verification
     4.1.  Validation Record Format
     4.2.  Verification Procedure
     4.3.  Account Key Rotation Period
     4.4.  Multiple Issuer Support
       4.4.1.  Coexistence of Records
       4.4.2.  CA Verification Process
       4.4.3.  Security and Management Considerations
       4.4.4.  Example: Authorizing Two CAs
     4.5.  Just-in-Time Validation
     4.6.  Pre-Provisioning Records
   5.  Wildcard and Subdomain Certificate Validation
     5.1.  Scope of policy=wildcard
   6.  Subdomain Certificate Validation
     6.1.  Determining Permitted Subdomains
     6.2.  Implementation Requirements
     6.3.  Example: Subdomain Validation
   7.  Security Considerations
     7.1.  Persistent Record Risks
     7.2.  Account Binding Security
       7.2.1.  Account Key Rotation
       7.2.2.  Account URI Privacy
       7.2.3.  Hashed Account URIs
     7.3.  Subdomain Validation Risks
     7.4.  Cross-CA Validation Reuse
     7.5.  Record Tampering and Integrity
     7.6.  Issuer Domain Name Normalization and Limits
     7.7.  CAA Interaction
     7.8.  DNS Security Measures
       7.8.1.  DNSSEC
       7.8.2.  Multi-Perspective Validation
     7.9.  Validation Data Reuse and TTL Handling
     7.10. persistUntil Parameter Considerations
     7.11. Revocation and Invalidation of Persistent Authorizations
   8.  IANA Considerations
     8.1.  ACME Validation Methods Registry
     8.2.  Underscored and Globally Scoped DNS Node Names Registry
     8.3.  ACME Directory Metadata Fields
   9.  Implementation Considerations
     9.1.  DNS Record Size Considerations
     9.2.  Domain Name Normalization Algorithm
     9.3.  CA Implementation Guidelines
       9.3.1.  Error Handling
     9.4.  Client Implementation Guidelines
     9.5.  DNS Provider Considerations
   10. Examples
     10.1.  Basic Validation Example (FQDN Only)
     10.2.  Hashed-URI Example
     10.3.  Wildcard Validation Example
     10.4.  Validation Example with persistUntil
     10.5.  Wildcard Validation Example with persistUntil
   11. References
     11.1.  Normative References
     11.2.  Informative References
   Acknowledgments
   Change Log
     Since draft-ietf-acme-dns-persist-01
   Authors' Addresses

1.  Introduction

   The Automated Certificate Management Environment (ACME) protocol
   [RFC8555] defines mechanisms for automating certificate issuance and
   domain validation.  The existing challenge methods, "http-01" and
   "dns-01", require real-time interaction between the ACME client and
   the domain's infrastructure during the validation process.  While
   effective for many use cases, these methods present challenges in
   certain deployment scenarios.

   Examples include:

   *  Edge compute and multi-tenant hosting platforms where the entity
      managing the DNS zone is distinct from the tenant subscribing to
      the certificate.

   *  Organizations that wish to pre-validate domains and batch issuance
      operations offline or at a later time.

   *  Environments with strict change management processes where DNS
      modifications require approval workflows.

   *  Scenarios requiring wildcard certificates where domain control is
      proven once and reused over an extended period.

   *  Internet of Things (IoT) deployments where devices may not be able
      to host an HTTP service or coordinate DNS updates in real-time.

   This document defines a new ACME challenge type, "dns-persist-01".
   This method proves control over a Fully Qualified Domain Name (FQDN)
   by confirming the presence of a persistent DNS TXT record containing
   CA and account identification information.

   The record format is based on the "issue-value" syntax from
   [RFC8659], incorporating an issuer-domain-name and a mandatory
   accounturi parameter [RFC8657] that identifies the applicant's ACME
   account.  The accounturi is a hashed URI that cryptographically binds
   the account to the domain being validated.  This design provides
   strong binding between the domain, the CA, and the entity requesting
   validation.

1.1.  Robustness and Alignment with Industry Best Practices

   This validation method is designed to provide a robust and persistent
   mechanism for domain control verification within the ACME protocol.
   Its technical design incorporates widely adopted security principles
   and best practices for domain validation, ensuring high assurance
   regardless of the specific CA policy environment.  These principles
   include, but are not limited to:

   1.  The use of a well-defined, unique DNS label (e.g., "_validation-
       persist") for persistent validation records, minimizing potential
       conflicts.

   2.  Consideration of DNS TTL values when determining the effective
       validity period of an authorization, balancing persistence with
       responsiveness to DNS changes (see Section 7.9).

   3.  Explicit binding of the domain validation to an ACME account
       through a unique identifier, establishing clear accountability
       and enhancing security against unauthorized use.

   Certification Authorities operating under various trust program
   requirements will find this technical framework suitable for their
   domain validation needs, as its design inherently supports robust and
   auditable validation practices.

2.  Conventions and Definitions

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "NOT RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and
   "OPTIONAL" in this document are to be interpreted as described in
   BCP 14 [RFC2119] [RFC8174] when, and only when, they appear in all
   capitals, as shown here.

   *DNS TXT Record Persistent DCV Domain Label*  The label "_validation-
      persist" as specified in this document.  This label is consistent
      with industry practices for persistent domain validation.

   *Validation Domain Name*  The domain name at which the validation TXT
      record is provisioned.  It is formed by prepending the DNS TXT
      Record Persistent DCV Domain Label to the FQDN being validated.

      This term follows the precedent set by [RFC8555], Section 8.4,
      which uses "validation domain name" for the analogous _acme-
      challenge.<FQDN> label in the dns-01 challenge.  This document
      avoids the term "Authorization Domain Name" because the CA/Browser
      Forum Baseline Requirements [cabf-br] define it as the FQDN used
      to obtain authorization, without any label prepended.

   *Issuer Domain Name*  A domain name disclosed by the CA in
      Section 4.2 of the CA's Certificate Policy and/or Certification
      Practices Statement to identify the CA for the purposes of this
      validation method.

      Note: The issuer-domain-names provided in the challenge object MAY
      be drawn from the machine-readable caaIdentities array in the ACME
      server's directory object, as specified in [RFC8555],
      Section 7.1.1.  This creates a clearer programmatic link between
      the server's advertised identities and the challenge object.

   *Validation Data Reuse Period*  The period during which a CA may rely
      on validation data, as defined by the CA's practices and
      applicable requirements.

   *persistUntil*  An optional parameter in the validation record that
      specifies the timestamp after which the validation record should
      no longer be considered valid by CAs.  The value MUST be a base-10
      encoded integer representing a UNIX timestamp (the number of
      seconds since 1970-01-01T00:00:00Z ignoring leap seconds).

3.  The "dns-persist-01" Challenge

   The "dns-persist-01" challenge allows an ACME client to demonstrate
   control over an FQDN by proving it can provision a DNS TXT record
   containing specific, persistent validation information.  The
   validation information links the FQDN to both the Certificate
   Authority performing the validation and the account requesting the
   validation.

   When an ACME client accepts a "dns-persist-01" challenge, it proves
   control by provisioning a DNS TXT record at the Validation Domain
   Name.  Unlike the existing "dns-01" challenge, this record is
   designed to persist and may be reused for multiple certificate
   issuances over an extended period.

3.1.  Challenge Object

   The challenge object for "dns-persist-01" contains the following
   fields:

   *  *type* (required, string): The string "dns-persist-01"

   *  *url* (required, string): The URL to which a response can be
      posted

   *  *status* (required, string): The status of this challenge

   *  *issuer-domain-names* (required, array of strings): A list of one
      or more Issuer Domain Names.  The client MUST choose one of these
      domain names to include in the DNS TXT record.  The challenge is
      successful if a valid TXT record is found that uses any one of the
      provided domain names.

      Each string in the array MUST be a domain name that complies with
      the following normalization rules:

      1.  The domain name MUST be represented in A-label format
          (Punycode, [RFC5890]).

      2.  All characters MUST be lowercase.

      3.  The domain name MUST NOT have a trailing dot.

      The server MUST ensure the array is not empty.  Servers MUST NOT
      send more than 10 issuer domain names.  This limit serves as a
      practical measure to prevent denial-of-service vectors against
      clients.  Clients MUST consider a challenge malformed if the
      issuer-domain-names array is empty or if it contains more than 10
      entries, and MUST reject such challenges.  Each domain name MUST
      NOT exceed 253 octets in length.

   The following shows an example challenge object:

   {
     "type": "dns-persist-01",
     "url": "https://ca.example/acme/authz/1234/0",
     "status": "pending",
     "issuer-domain-names": ["authority.example", "ca.example.net"]
   }

             Figure 1: Example dns-persist-01 Challenge Object

4.  Challenge Response and Verification

   To respond to the challenge, the ACME client provisions a DNS TXT
   record at the Validation Domain Name of the domain being validated.
   The Validation Domain Name is formed by prepending the label
   "_validation-persist" to the domain name being validated.

   For example, if the domain being validated is "example.com", the
   Validation Domain Name would be "_validation-persist.example.com".

   The client indicates it is ready for validation by POSTing an empty
   JSON object ({}) to the challenge URL, following the procedure
   defined in [RFC8555], Section 7.5.1.

4.1.  Validation Record Format

   The RDATA of this TXT record MUST fulfill the following requirements:

   1.  The RDATA value MUST conform to the issue-value syntax defined in
       [RFC8659], Section 4.2.  To ensure forward compatibility, the
       server MUST ignore any parameter within the issue-value that has
       an unrecognized tag.

   2.  The issuer-domain-name portion of the issue-value MUST be one of
       the Issuer Domain Names provided by the CA in the issuer-domain-
       names array of the challenge object.  If the issuer-domain-name
       does not match any of the provided values, the CA MUST reject the
       record.

   3.  The issue-value MUST contain an accounturi parameter whose value
       is a hashed URI identifying the ACME account requesting
       validation.  A hashed URI cryptographically binds the account to
       the domain being validated without publishing the account URL in
       cleartext.  It is formed by concatenating the CA's
       accountHashPrefix, a hash-algorithm identifier, a "/" separator,
       and a base64url hash value:

      <accountHashPrefix><hash-alg>/<base64url hash value>

       A CA that advertises support for the dns-persist-01 challenge
       type MUST advertise an accountHashPrefix string in the meta
       object of its directory ([RFC8555], Section 7.1.1).  This prefix
       places hashed account URIs under the CA's infrastructure and lets
       a client construct them from the directory without a per-
       provisioning request to the CA.  The CA MUST choose a prefix such
       that appending the remaining components yields a valid URI (for
       example, https://ca.example/account-hash/).

       <hash-alg> is a lowercase US-ASCII token identifying the hash
       algorithm used to compute the value.  This document defines the
       token sha-256 for the SHA-256 algorithm [FIPS180-4].  A <hash-
       alg> token MUST NOT contain a "/" octet, so that the "/"
       following it unambiguously delimits the algorithm identifier from
       the hash value; an algorithm whose common name contains "/" (for
       example, SHA-512/256) is represented with a hyphen substituted
       for the slash.  A CA MUST document which hash algorithms it
       accepts (in directory metadata or in its CP/CPS) and MAY reject
       an accounturi value that uses an algorithm it does not accept.
       This provides algorithm agility: a CA migrates to a new algorithm
       by accepting a new <hash-alg> token, keeping the algorithm and
       its identifier bound together in the URI.

       <base64url hash value> is the base64url encoding [RFC4648], with
       trailing padding (=) omitted, of the hash digest computed with
       the identified algorithm over the following octet string:

      H(length_of_domain || domain_name || key || account_URL)

       where H is the identified hash algorithm and || denotes octet-
       string concatenation.  The inputs are:

       1.  length_of_domain is a single octet giving the length in
           octets of domain_name.  A domain name is limited to 255
           octets ([RFC1035], Section 2.3.4), so a single octet always
           suffices.  This length prefix delimits domain_name from the
           fields that follow.

       2.  domain_name is, by default, the FQDN being validated: the
           Validation Domain Name with its leading _validation-persist
           label removed and no trailing dot, in the normalized
           lowercase A-label form produced by Section 9.2.  This form is
           US-ASCII.  This is the FQDN at which the _validation-persist
           record is provisioned, not the FQDN of the certificate
           ultimately requested; binding the record to its own domain is
           what makes the hashed URI domain-specific (see
           Section 7.2.3).

           As an exception, a client MAY set domain_name to the single
           US-ASCII octet * (0x2a; length_of_domain is then 0x01) to opt
           out of the domain-correlation mitigation.  The resulting
           hashed URI does not depend on the domain and MAY therefore be
           reused across domains.  A CA MUST accept a hashed URI
           computed with domain_name set to *. The privacy trade-off of
           this opt-out is described in Section 7.2.3.

       3.  key is the SHA-256 JWK Thumbprint [RFC7638] of a public key
           associated with the ACME account, as raw digest octets (not
           base64url-encoded), and is therefore a fixed 32 octets.  When
           provisioning a _validation-persist record, the client MUST
           use the account's current key.  A CA MUST accept a hashed URI
           generated with the current key associated with the account.
           Additionally, a CA MUST accept a hashed URI generated with a
           prior key previously associated with the account that is
           known to the CA per the key retention obligation in
           Section 4.2, subject to the deactivation and key-rotation
           limits stated there.  This allows a record provisioned before
           a key rotation to continue to validate.  The rationale for
           these requirements is given in Section 7.2.3.

       4.  account_URL is the ACME account URL ([RFC8555], Section 7.3).
           A URI is US-ASCII per [RFC3986], so it is encoded as those
           US-ASCII octets.

       The CA MUST verify that the hashed URI in the DNS record
       authorizes the ACME account making the request, by recomputing it
       as described in Section 4.2; if no recomputation matches, the CA
       MUST reject the record.

   4.  The issue-value MAY contain a policy parameter.  If present, this
       parameter modifies the validation scope.  The policy parameter
       follows the 'tag=value' syntax from [RFC8659].  Comparison of the
       values defined for this parameter MUST be case-insensitive (e.g.,
       "WILDCARD" and "wildcard" are equivalent).

       Note: The requirement to ignore unrecognized parameters (item 1)
       ensures forward compatibility, allowing future extensions without
       breaking existing implementations, consistent with ACME's
       extensibility model ([RFC8555]).  The explicit case-insensitivity
       requirement is necessary to ensure consistent behavior across
       implementations; without it, some CAs might reject unknown
       parameter values, preventing protocol evolution.

       The following value for the policy parameter is defined with
       respect to subdomain and wildcard validation:

       *  policy=wildcard: If this value is present, the CA MAY consider
          this validation sufficient for issuing certificates for the
          validated FQDN, for specific subdomains of the validated FQDN
          (as covered by wildcard scope or specific subdomain validation
          rules), and for wildcard certificates (e.g., *.example.com).
          See Section 5 and Section 6.

       If the policy parameter is absent, or if its value is anything
       other than wildcard, the CA MUST proceed as if the policy
       parameter were not present (i.e., the validation applies only to
       the specific FQDN).

   5.  The issue-value MAY contain a persistUntil parameter.  If
       present, the value MUST be a base-10 encoded integer representing
       a UNIX timestamp (the number of seconds since
       1970-01-01T00:00:00Z ignoring leap seconds).  If the value is not
       a valid base-10 integer, the CA MUST treat the record as
       malformed and reject it.  CAs MUST NOT consider this validation
       record valid for new validation attempts after the specified
       timestamp.  However, this does not affect the reuse of already-
       validated data.

   This specification defines the following case-handling rules for
   parameter values in dns-persist-01 records:

   *  accounturi: The value is a hashed URI.  CAs MUST compare
      accounturi values using Simple String Comparison per [RFC3986],
      Section 6.2.1, with no case-folding or other normalization.

   *  policy: Case-insensitive, as specified in item 4 above.

   *  persistUntil: The value is a base-10 integer.  Case does not
      apply.

   For example, for validation of the FQDN "example.com" with issuer
   domain name "authority.example", where the CA advertises an
   accountHashPrefix of "https://ca.example/account-hash/" and the
   account's hashed URI (see Section 10.2 for the full computation) is
   "https://ca.example/account-hash/sha-256/
   M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0", the DNS TXT record
   would contain:

   _validation-persist.example.com. IN TXT ("authority.example;"
   " accounturi=https://ca.example/account-hash/"
   "sha-256/M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0")

                   Figure 2: Basic Validation TXT Record

4.2.  Verification Procedure

   The ACME server verifies the challenge by performing a DNS lookup for
   TXT records at the Validation Domain Name.  It then iterates through
   the returned records to find one that conforms to the required
   structure.  For a record to be considered valid, its issuer-domain-
   name value MUST match one of the values provided in the issuer-
   domain-names array from the challenge object, and its accounturi
   parameter MUST be a hashed URI that identifies the requesting
   account, as defined in Section 4.1.  When comparing issuer domain
   names, the server MUST adhere to the normalization rules specified in
   Section 3.1.  The server also interprets any policy parameter values
   according to this specification.  If no record meeting all
   requirements is found, the server MUST treat the challenge as failed.

   To verify a hashed-URI accounturi value, the CA already knows the
   requesting account's URL and the FQDN being validated.  The CA
   computes the expected hashed URI as defined in Section 4.1 over each
   ACME public key it retains for that account (see below); for each
   such key it computes the value twice, once using the FQDN being
   validated as domain_name and once using the domain-omitted opt-out
   form (domain_name set to *).  The CA treats the record as satisfying
   the requirement if its accounturi value equals any of these computed
   hashed URIs under Simple String Comparison ([RFC3986],
   Section 6.2.1).  Retaining an account's prior key thumbprints allows
   records provisioned before a key rotation to continue validating.

   To recompute these hashed URIs, a CA has a data-retention obligation:
   it MUST retain an association between each ACME account and the
   SHA-256 JWK Thumbprints of the public keys that account has used, and
   it MUST retain, for each currently valid certificate, the link from
   that certificate to the specific key that computed the hashed URI of
   the _validation-persist record that most recently validated a domain
   for it.  The following rules govern this retained data and the
   acceptance of the keys behind it, listed in order of precedence with
   earlier rules overriding later ones:

   1.  *Deactivation overrides retention.* A CA MUST NOT accept a hashed
       URI computed from a key of a deactivated ACME account, regardless
       of any retention rule below and regardless of whether a currently
       valid certificate depends on that key.  Deactivating an account
       ([RFC8555], Section 7.3.6) therefore stops all of that account's
       _validation-persist records from validating immediately, which is
       the intended behavior for a suspected key or account compromise.

   2.  *Certificate-backed retention.* A CA MUST retain the thumbprint
       of the key used to compute the hashed URI of any _validation-
       persist record that most recently validated a domain for a
       currently valid certificate, and MUST NOT prune it while that
       certificate remains valid, regardless of the key's age or any
       key-rotation bound.  This ensures a record backing an in-use
       certificate does not cease to validate through routine key
       rotation.

   3.  *General retention.* Subject to the rules above, a CA SHOULD
       retain the thumbprint of every public key an account has used
       since the CA began accepting dns-persist-01 records, so that a
       record computed under any of those keys continues to validate.  A
       CA MAY bound acceptance of a rotated-out key with a
       keyRotationPeriod (see Section 4.3); once no currently valid
       certificate depends on a given key's hashed URI, and any
       applicable keyRotationPeriod has elapsed, the CA MAY prune that
       key's thumbprint.

4.3.  Account Key Rotation Period

   A CA MAY advertise a keyRotationPeriod in the meta object of its
   directory ([RFC8555], Section 7.1.1).  When present, its value MUST
   be a non-negative integer number of seconds.  It bounds how long,
   after a public key ceases to be the current key of an ACME account
   (for example, because the account rotated to a new key per [RFC8555],
   Section 7.3.5), the CA continues to accept hashed URIs computed with
   that prior key.

   After the period elapses, the CA MAY cease accepting the rotated-out
   key, subject to the precedence rules in Section 4.2: certificate-
   backed retention keeps a key acceptable while a currently valid
   certificate depends on it even after the period has elapsed, and
   account deactivation stops acceptance immediately even before the
   period elapses.  A CA that does not advertise a keyRotationPeriod
   retains and accepts prior keys per the general retention guidance in
   Section 4.2.

   The keyRotationPeriod gives domain owners an upper bound on how long
   a _validation-persist record computed with a since-rotated key
   remains usable, and gives CAs a defined point at which prior-key
   thumbprints may be pruned.  Clients SHOULD republish _validation-
   persist records using the account's current key after a key rotation,
   and SHOULD do so before the CA's keyRotationPeriod elapses, so that
   validation does not lapse.

4.4.  Multiple Issuer Support

   A domain MAY authorize multiple Certificate Authorities (CAs) by
   provisioning a separate _validation-persist TXT record for each
   issuer.  This allows domain owners to maintain relationships with
   multiple CAs simultaneously, enhancing flexibility and resilience.

4.4.1.  Coexistence of Records

   When multiple TXT records are present at the same DNS label (e.g.,
   _validation-persist.example.com), each record functions as an
   independent authorization for the specified issuer.  This follows a
   similar pattern to CAA records [RFC8659], where multiple records at
   the same label are permissible.

4.4.2.  CA Verification Process

   When a CA performs validation for a domain with multiple _validation-
   persist TXT records, it MUST follow these steps:

   1.  *Query DNS*: Retrieve all TXT records from the Validation Domain
       Name.

   2.  *Filter Records*: Iterate through the returned records to find
       those where the issuer-domain-name value matches one of the
       Issuer Domain Names the CA is configured to use for this
       validation.  The CA MUST ignore all other records.

   3.  *Validate Record*: For each matching record, the CA proceeds to
       validate it according to the requirements in this specification,
       including verifying the accounturi and persistUntil parameters.
       If any matching record satisfies all requirements, the validation
       succeeds.

   4.  *Handle No Match*: If no record with a matching issuer-domain-
       name is found, or if no matching record satisfies all validation
       requirements, the validation attempt MUST fail.

4.4.3.  Security and Management Considerations

   When authorizing multiple issuers, domain owners MUST consider the
   following:

   *Auditing*  Regularly audit DNS records to ensure that only intended
      CAs remain authorized.  Remove records for CAs that are no longer
      in use.

   *Independent Security*  Each authorized CA operates independently.
      The compromise of one CA's systems does not directly affect the
      security of other authorized CAs.

   *Weakest Link*  The domain's overall security posture is influenced
      by the security practices of all authorized CAs.  Domain owners
      should consider the practices of each CA they authorize.

   *Authorization Removal*  To de-authorize a CA, the corresponding TXT
      record MUST be deleted from the DNS zone.

4.4.4.  Example: Authorizing Two CAs

   This example demonstrates how a domain owner can authorize two
   different CAs, "ca1.example" and "ca2.example", to issue certificates
   for example.org.

   *DNS Configuration:*

   _validation-persist.example.org. 3600 IN TXT ("ca1.example;"
   " accounturi=https://ca1.example/account-hash/"
   "sha-256/wjZNvLpIgf7zrr9KQo7zCLaG2Ea67KS4o4cAwSepsls;"
   " policy=wildcard")
   _validation-persist.example.org. 3600 IN TXT ("ca2.example;"
   " accounturi=https://ca2.example/account-hash/"
   "sha-256/Mpngr2LZCN9gPArggXqEu4pKtYZvLL5IxMStzyWrrXc;"
   " persistUntil=1767225600")

                Figure 3: Multiple CA Authorization Records

   *Verification Flow for CA1:*

   1.  CA1 queries for TXT records at _validation-persist.example.org.

   2.  It receives both records.

   3.  It filters for the record where issuer-domain-name is
       "ca1.example".

   4.  It validates the request using this record, noting the
       policy=wildcard authorization.

   5.  The second record for "ca2.example" is ignored.

   *Verification Flow for CA2:*

   1.  CA2 queries for TXT records at _validation-persist.example.org.

   2.  It receives both records.

   3.  It filters for the record where issuer-domain-name is
       "ca2.example".

   4.  It validates the request using this record, noting the
       persistUntil constraint.

   5.  The first record for "ca1.example" is ignored.

4.5.  Just-in-Time Validation

   When processing a new authorization request, a CA MAY perform an
   immediate DNS lookup for _validation-persist TXT records at the
   Validation Domain Name corresponding to the requested domain
   identifier.

   If one or more such records exist, the CA MUST evaluate them
   according to the requirements specified in Section 4.4.  If at least
   one record meets all validation requirements, the CA MAY transition
   the authorization to the "valid" status without returning a "pending"
   challenge to the client.  This mechanism is an optimization and does
   not alter the ACME state machine defined in [RFC8555].  The server
   internally transitions the authorization from "pending" through
   "processing" to "valid" instantaneously.  From the client's
   perspective, it receives a "valid" authorization object directly in
   response to its creation request.

   If no DNS TXT record meets the validation requirements, or if the
   records are absent, the CA MUST proceed with the standard
   authorization flow by returning a "pending" authorization with an
   associated dns-persist-01 challenge object.

   CAs implementing Just-in-Time validation SHOULD rate-limit JIT DNS
   lookups per domain identifier, independent of the requesting account,
   to prevent amplification attacks where multiple accounts trigger
   excessive queries against a target domain.  CAs SHOULD restrict JIT
   validation to accounts that have previously completed a successful
   dns-persist-01 validation.  CAs implementing Just-in-Time validation
   SHOULD provide account activity notifications or logging, as this
   path eliminates the challenge-response interaction that might
   otherwise provide a detection window for account compromise.

   This mechanism enables efficient reuse of persistent validation
   records while maintaining the security properties of the validation
   method.

4.6.  Pre-Provisioning Records

   Domain owners MAY provision _validation-persist TXT records before
   requesting any certificates, provided they can compute the accounturi
   value.  When constructing records without a challenge object, the
   following values MUST be used:

   *  *accounturi*: The hashed URI, computed as specified in
      Section 4.1.  A client knows its own ACME account URL (as returned
      in the Location header of the account creation response,
      [RFC8555], Section 7.3), the FQDN it is provisioning, and its
      current account key, so it can compute and publish the hashed URI
      itself from the CA's accountHashPrefix without a per-provisioning
      request to the CA.  A client that wishes to reuse a single record
      across multiple domains MAY instead use the domain-omitted opt-out
      form (domain_name set to *, see Section 4.1).

   *  *issuer-domain-name*: Clients MAY use the caaIdentities array from
      the ACME directory metadata ([RFC8555], Section 7.1.1) as a hint
      for issuer-domain-name selection.  CAs that populate caaIdentities
      SHOULD ensure these values are consistent with the issuer-domain-
      name values they accept in dns-persist-01 records.  If
      caaIdentities is unavailable, the issuer-domain-name MAY be
      obtained from the CA's Certificate Policy or Certification
      Practice Statement.

   For a pre-provisioned record, the client computes the hashed
   accounturi itself, outside the ACME challenge-response flow, from its
   own ACME account URL, its current account key, and the CA's
   accountHashPrefix.  The client obtains the accountHashPrefix from the
   CA's directory ([RFC8555], Section 7.1.1) and SHOULD retrieve the
   directory over an authenticated channel, so that the record is placed
   under the intended CA's infrastructure.  Because the hashed URI
   cryptographically binds the account key (see Section 7.2.3), a record
   computed with the client's genuine account key cannot be made to
   validate for a different account; this key binding is what lets a
   domain owner safely pre-provision without the challenge-response
   exchange.

   Organizations pre-provisioning records SHOULD maintain an inventory
   of _validation-persist records and the ACME accounts they reference.
   Records MAY include a persistUntil parameter to bound their effective
   lifetime (see Section 7.10).  Domain owners SHOULD audit _validation-
   persist records after any DNS infrastructure security incident, as
   pre-provisioned records persist beyond the window of compromise.

   CAs implementing dns-persist-01 SHOULD maintain a stable
   accountHashPrefix and stable account URLs for the lifetime of an
   account, and SHOULD document their stability guarantees, since the
   hashed URI is computed over the account URL and served under the
   prefix.  If a CA must change its accountHashPrefix or account-URL
   structure, it SHOULD provide a transition period during which hashed
   URIs under both the old and new forms are accepted for validation.

5.  Wildcard and Subdomain Certificate Validation

   This validation method supports validation for wildcard certificates
   (e.g., *.example.com) and specific subdomains through the use of the
   policy=wildcard parameter.

5.1.  Scope of policy=wildcard

   When a DNS TXT record includes the policy=wildcard parameter value,
   it authorizes certificate issuance for:

   1.  *The validated FQDN itself* - The base domain for which the TXT
       record exists (e.g., example.com)

   2.  *Wildcard certificates* - Wildcard certificates for the validated
       FQDN or any of its subdomains (e.g., *.example.com,
       *.dept.example.com)

   3.  *Specific subdomains* - Any specific subdomain of the validated
       FQDN (e.g., www.example.com, app.example.com,
       server.dept.example.com)

   For example, a TXT record at _validation-persist.example.com
   containing policy=wildcard can validate certificates for example.com,
   *.example.com, www.example.com, and any other subdomain of
   example.com.

   If the policy parameter is absent, or if its value is anything other
   than wildcard, the validation applies only to the specific FQDN being
   validated.  CAs MUST NOT consider such validation sufficient for
   wildcard certificates or subdomains.

6.  Subdomain Certificate Validation

   When the policy=wildcard parameter is present (as described in
   Section 5), CAs MAY issue certificates for subdomains of the
   validated FQDN.  This section describes the implementation details
   for subdomain validation.

6.1.  Determining Permitted Subdomains

   To determine which subdomains are permitted, the FQDN for which the
   persistent TXT record exists (referred to as the "validated FQDN")
   MUST be a proper suffix of the FQDN for which a certificate is
   requested (referred to as the "requested FQDN").  For wildcard
   certificate requests, the proper suffix check applies to the base
   domain name after removing the wildcard prefix (*.), consistent with
   [RFC8555], Section 7.1.3.  The base-level wildcard (e.g.,
   *.example.com where the validated FQDN is example.com) is authorized
   directly by Section 5 and is not subject to this proper suffix
   requirement.

   For example, if dept.example.com is the validated FQDN, a certificate
   for server.dept.example.com is permitted because dept.example.com is
   its suffix.  A certificate for *.server.dept.example.com is also
   permitted: after removing the wildcard prefix,
   server.dept.example.com has dept.example.com as a proper suffix.

6.2.  Implementation Requirements

   *  The persistent DNS TXT record MUST include policy=wildcard for
      subdomain validation to be permitted.

   *  CAs MUST verify that the validated FQDN is a proper suffix of the
      requested FQDN.  For wildcard requests, this check applies to the
      base domain after removing the *. prefix.  The base-level wildcard
      is exempt per Section 5.

   *  If the policy parameter is absent or has any value other than
      wildcard, subdomain validation MUST NOT be permitted.

   See Section 7.3 for important security implications of enabling
   subdomain validation.

6.3.  Example: Subdomain Validation

   For a persistent TXT record provisioned at _validation-
   persist.example.com with policy=wildcard:

   *  Permitted: example.com, www.example.com, app.example.com,
      server.dept.example.com, *.example.com, *.dept.example.com

   *  Not permitted without additional validation: otherexample.com,
      example.net

7.  Security Considerations

   The requirement for CAs to ignore unknown parameter tags means that
   future extensions must be carefully designed to ensure that being
   ignored does not create security vulnerabilities.  Extensions that
   require strict enforcement should use alternative mechanisms, such as
   separate record types or explicit version negotiation.

7.1.  Persistent Record Risks

   The persistence of validation records creates extended windows of
   vulnerability compared to traditional ACME challenge methods.  If an
   attacker gains control of a DNS zone containing persistent validation
   records, they can potentially obtain certificates for the validated
   domains until the validation records are removed or modified.

   Clients SHOULD protect validation records through appropriate DNS
   security measures, including:

   *  Using DNS providers with strong authentication and access controls

   *  Implementing DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) where possible

   *  Monitoring DNS zones for unauthorized changes

   *  Regularly reviewing and rotating validation records

7.2.  Account Binding Security

   The accounturi parameter provides strong binding between domain
   validation and the ACME account identified by the hashed URI.
   However, this binding depends on the security of the account itself.

   The security of this method is fundamentally bound to the security of
   the ACME account's private key.  Because the accounturi is a hashed
   URI computed in part over the account key (see Section 7.2.3), if
   this key is compromised, an attacker can immediately use any pre-
   existing dns-persist-01 authorizations associated with that account
   to issue certificates, without needing any further access to the
   domain's DNS infrastructure.  This elevates the importance of secure
   key management for ACME clients far above that required for transient
   challenge methods, as the window of opportunity for an attacker is
   tied to the lifetime of the persistent authorization, not a momentary
   challenge.

   CAs SHOULD implement robust account security measures, including:

   *  Strong authentication requirements for ACME accounts

   *  Account activity monitoring and anomaly detection

   *  Rapid account revocation capabilities

   *  Regular account security reviews

   *  Account key rotation policies and procedures

   Clients SHOULD protect their ACME account keys with the same level of
   security as they would protect private keys for high-value
   certificates.

7.2.1.  Account Key Rotation

   The accounturi parameter is a stable identifier for the ACME account
   that persists across key rotations.  When a client rotates their
   account key following the procedures defined in [RFC8555],
   Section 7.3.5, the accounturi MAY remain unchanged.  Therefore,
   existing DNS TXT records containing the accounturi parameter do not
   require modification when performing account key rotations.

7.2.2.  Account URI Privacy

   Because _validation-persist TXT records are publicly queryable and
   long-lived, the accounturi value is visible to any party that queries
   DNS.  With a cleartext account identifier, the same value appearing
   in records for multiple domains would let third parties infer that
   those domains share the same ACME account and likely share
   infrastructure; this correlation risk is noted in [RFC8657],
   Section 5.9.  The hashed URI defined in this document mitigates that
   risk by binding domain_name into the digest, so a given account
   produces a different accounturi value for each domain (see
   Section 7.2.3).

   Domain owners who require stronger privacy can additionally use
   separate ACME accounts for domains that should not be correlated.
   The domain-omitted opt-out form (domain_name set to *, see
   Section 4.1) deliberately forgoes the per-domain mitigation: the same
   value then appears in every record that uses it, so a bulk observer
   can link those domains.  A domain owner who uses the opt-out to reuse
   one record across domains accepts that linkage.

7.2.3.  Hashed Account URIs

   The hashed URI is the sole accounturi form (Section 4.1).  It serves
   two purposes: it cryptographically binds the requesting account to
   the domain so that a record cannot be transferred to authorize a
   different account, preserving the non-transferability property of
   [RFC8555]; and it reduces the correlation exposure described in
   Section 7.2.2.  It does not hide the account from the CA, which
   necessarily learns the account URL when it recomputes and validates
   the record.

   *Source of the authorization binding.* The account holder commits to
   the account URL by publishing a digest computed over account_URL.
   Because the hash is collision resistant, this commitment is
   comparable to publishing the account URL directly, while the digest
   also incorporates the account key and the domain, as described below.

   *Non-transferability and substitution resistance.* A raw account URL
   is only a URL commitment: its integrity is only as good as the
   channel that delivered the URL to the domain owner, and if that
   channel is poisoned the record binds to an account the owner did not
   intend, so RFC 8555 non-transferability is not preserved.  The hashed
   URI closes this gap by additionally binding the account key.  A CA
   recomputes the digest over the requesting account's own key, so a
   record validates for an account only if it was computed with a key
   that account controls.  An attacker therefore cannot make an honest
   CA accept, for the attacker's account, a digest the victim published,
   because the attacker does not hold the victim's private key; and an
   attacker who substitutes a different account URL still cannot produce
   a validating record without the corresponding key.  This substitution
   resistance is the reason this document defines only the hashed URI
   and does not permit a raw account URL.

   *Role of the account key (privacy).* ACME account URLs are frequently
   low in entropy (e.g., a short, sequential account identifier of only
   a handful of digits).  An adversary who knows a CA's account-URL
   structure could enumerate all plausible account URLs, hash each
   against a target domain, and recover the account URL behind a
   published digest, defeating the privacy goal.  The account key's JWK
   Thumbprint is included as a high-entropy input that raises the cost
   of this enumeration.

   *Binding to the record's own domain.* The digest binds domain_name,
   which is the FQDN at which the _validation-persist record is
   provisioned, not the FQDN of the certificate ultimately requested.
   This has two effects.  First, the same account produces a different
   accounturi value in every domain's record, so a bulk observer cannot
   correlate domains by matching identical strings, as it could with a
   shared cleartext account URL.  Second, because each record is bound
   to its own domain, there is no ambiguity under wildcard or CNAME'd
   provisioning about which name a given record authorizes, and a record
   cannot be lifted to a different domain.  A domain owner who
   deliberately wants one record to authorize many names uses the
   domain-omitted opt-out (domain_name set to *), accepting the
   correlation trade-off described in Section 7.2.2.

   *Digest construction.* The digest is compared for exact equality
   against a value the CA recomputes over a fixed field structure
   (Section 4.1), so there is no attacker-controlled trailing input, and
   length-extension of the digest yields nothing an attacker can use.
   The length_of_domain prefix and the fixed 32-octet key make every
   field boundary unambiguous regardless of which octets appear in
   domain_name or account_URL, so no field can be shifted into another
   to construct a colliding preimage.  The key is included as raw digest
   octets rather than a textual encoding of the thumbprint.  The hash
   input is an opaque octet string, so no encoding is required;
   introducing one would only force both sides to agree on an otherwise-
   arbitrary representation (base64 versus base64url, with or without
   padding) for no benefit.  A client already needs purpose-built code
   to assemble the length-prefixed input, so recovering the thumbprint's
   32 octets is trivial; a textual encoding would matter only to someone
   hand-assembling the input as a string.

   *Uniqueness of the binding.* What [RFC8657], Section 5.4 requires of
   an accounturi is reverse-direction uniqueness: a single accounturi
   value must not identify two different accounts.  This holds because
   account_URL is one of the hash inputs and the hash is collision
   resistant, so each hashed URI uniquely identifies one account.  The
   forward direction is intentionally one-to-many — one account yields a
   different value per domain — which is the privacy property above.

   *Acceptance of prior keys.* A CA accepts digests generated with an
   account's prior keys so that records provisioned before a rotation
   survive without republication ([RFC8555], Section 7.3.5), subject to
   the deactivation, certificate-backed retention, and key-rotation-
   period rules in Section 4.2 and Section 4.3.  Such a record was
   committed to the account's URL when it was provisioned, so even if
   the key in the record is one that was later rotated out, the domain
   owner's intent to authorize that account is preserved.  Account
   deactivation overrides this acceptance: once an account is
   deactivated, no digest computed from any of its keys validates, which
   is the emergency stop for a suspected key compromise.

   *Limits of the privacy protection.* This construction is a best-
   effort obfuscation, not a cryptographically strong privacy mechanism.
   It resists bulk correlation and casual enumeration of account URLs,
   but a determined adversary with a-priori knowledge of candidate
   account URLs and their account keys can recover the true account URL.
   Domain owners who require stronger unlinkability SHOULD use separate
   ACME accounts for domains that must not be correlated.

7.3.  Subdomain Validation Risks

   Enabling subdomain validation via policy=wildcard creates significant
   security implications.  Organizations using this feature SHOULD
   carefully control subdomain delegation and monitor for unauthorized
   subdomains.  This policy value serves as the explicit mechanism for
   domain owners to opt-in to broader validation scopes.

   The ability to issue certificates for subdomains of validated FQDNs
   creates significant security risks, particularly in environments with
   subdomain delegation or where subdomains may be controlled by
   different entities.

   Potential risks include:

   *  Subdomain takeover attacks where abandoned subdomains are claimed
      by attackers

   *  Unauthorized certificate issuance for subdomains controlled by
      different organizations

   *  Confusion about which entity has authority over specific
      subdomains

   Organizations considering the use of subdomain validation SHOULD:

   *  Maintain strict control over subdomain delegation

   *  Implement monitoring for subdomain creation and changes

   *  Consider limiting subdomain validation to specific, controlled
      scenarios

   *  Provide clear governance policies for subdomain certificate
      authority

7.4.  Cross-CA Validation Reuse

   The persistent nature of validation records raises concerns about
   potential reuse across different Certificate Authorities.  While the
   issuer-domain-name parameter is designed to prevent such reuse,
   implementations MUST validate that the issuer-domain-name in the DNS
   record matches the CA's disclosed Issuer Domain Name.

7.5.  Record Tampering and Integrity

   DNS records are generally not authenticated end-to-end, making them
   potentially vulnerable to tampering.  CAs SHOULD implement additional
   integrity checks where possible and consider the overall security
   posture of the DNS infrastructure when relying on persistent
   validation records.

   Additionally, CAs SHOULD protect their ACME directory URL with
   appropriate security measures.  Using DNSSEC to protect the CA's ACME
   directory URL is RECOMMENDED.  An attacker who compromises the DNS
   for a CA's ACME directory URL could disrupt validation or potentially
   impersonate the CA in certain scenarios.  While this is a systemic
   DNS security risk that extends beyond this specification, it is
   amplified by any mechanism that relies on DNS for identity.

7.6.  Issuer Domain Name Normalization and Limits

   The issuer-domain-names field requires domain names to be provided in
   a normalized form (lowercase A-labels, no trailing dot) to prevent
   errors and security issues arising from case-sensitivity differences
   or Unicode homograph attacks.  By requiring a canonical
   representation, servers and clients can perform simple byte-for-byte
   comparisons, ensuring interoperability and deterministic validation.
   The order of names in the array has no significance.

   The server-side limit on the number of issuer domain names provided
   in a single challenge (e.g., 10) helps mitigate denial-of-service
   vectors where a client might be forced to perform an excessive number
   of DNS queries or a server might be burdened by validating against a
   large set of domains.

7.7.  CAA Interaction

   The dns-persist-01 validation method is a valid validationmethods
   parameter value for CAA records per [RFC8657].  Note that a CAA
   accounturi and a dns-persist-01 accounturi are independent
   reinforcing checks: both can restrict issuance, and the two are
   evaluated separately.

7.8.  DNS Security Measures

   To enhance the security and integrity of the validation process, CAs
   and clients should consider implementing advanced DNS security
   measures.

7.8.1.  DNSSEC

   DNS Security Extensions (DNSSEC) [RFC4033] provide cryptographic
   authentication of DNS data, ensuring that the validation records
   retrieved by a CA are authentic and have not been tampered with.  CAs
   SHOULD use a DNSSEC-validating resolver when querying dns-persist-01
   TXT records.  Without one, a CA will silently accept forged responses
   in DNSSEC-signed zones.  If a CA performs DNSSEC validation, it MUST
   treat validation failure (e.g., expired signatures, broken chain of
   trust) as a challenge failure and MUST NOT use the record for domain
   validation.  This requirement is stricter than the general DNSSEC
   guidance in [RFC8555] because dns-persist-01 records are long-lived
   and their compromise would persist for the record's lifetime.

7.8.2.  Multi-Perspective Validation

   Multi-Perspective Issuance Corroboration (MPIC) is a technique to
   validate domain control from multiple network vantage points.  This
   is a critical defense against localized network attacks, such as BGP
   hijacking and DNS spoofing, which could otherwise lead to certificate
   mis-issuance.

   For CAs subject to requirements like the CA/Browser Forum Baseline
   Requirements, MPIC is essential for robust domain validation.
   However, for private PKI systems where the network topology is well-
   known and such localized attacks are not part of the threat model,
   operators might reasonably judge MPIC unnecessary.

7.9.  Validation Data Reuse and TTL Handling

   This validation method is explicitly designed for persistence and
   reuse.  The period for which a CA may rely on validation data is its
   Validation Data Reuse Period (as defined in Section 2).  However, if
   the DNS TXT record's Time-to-Live (TTL) is shorter than this period,
   the CA MUST treat the record's TTL as the effective validation data
   reuse period for that specific validation.  A TTL of zero means the
   CA MUST NOT reuse the validation data beyond the current validation
   attempt.

   CAs MAY reuse validation data obtained through this method for the
   duration of their validation data reuse period, subject to the TTL
   constraints described in this section.  CAs MUST also respect any
   persistUntil constraint as specified in Section 4.1.

7.10.  persistUntil Parameter Considerations

   The persistUntil parameter provides domain owners with direct control
   over the validity period of their validation records.  CAs and
   clients should be aware of the following considerations:

   *  Domain owners should set expiration dates for validation records
      that balance security and operational needs.  To avoid unexpected
      validation failures during certificate renewal, domain owners are
      advised to:

      -  Align persistUntil values with certificate lifetimes or planned
         maintenance intervals

      -  Monitor or set reminders for persistUntil expirations

      -  Document persistUntil practices in certificate management
         procedures

      -  Automate updates to validation records with new persistUntil
         values during certificate renewal workflows

   *  CAs MUST parse and apply the persistUntil timestamp as specified
      in Section 4.1.

7.11.  Revocation and Invalidation of Persistent Authorizations

   The persistent nature of dns-persist-01 authorizations means that a
   valid DNS TXT record can grant control for an extended period,
   potentially even if the domain owner's intent changes or if the
   associated account key is compromised.  Therefore, explicit
   mechanisms for revoking or invalidating these persistent
   authorizations are critical.

   There are two primary revocation and invalidation actions:

   1.  *Remove DNS record:* Removing the corresponding DNS TXT record
       from the Validation Domain Name is the standard method for an
       Applicant to invalidate a dns-persist-01 authorization.  After
       the record is removed and resolver caches have expired, new
       validation attempts for the domain will fail.  This action is
       available to the domain owner and does not require CA
       involvement.

   2.  *Deactivate ACME account:* For situations requiring immediate
       revocation of issuance capability (e.g., suspected account key
       compromise), the account bound by the record can be deactivated
       as specified in [RFC8555], Section 7.3.6.  Per the deactivation
       rule in Section 4.2, a CA MUST NOT accept a hashed URI computed
       from any key of a deactivated account; deactivation therefore
       takes effect immediately and overrides key retention, including
       the certificate-backed retention of a key that a currently valid
       certificate depends on.  This makes account deactivation a full
       emergency measure that invalidates the record's utility without
       waiting for DNS caches to expire.

   The following table summarizes the applicability and timing of these
   actions:

     +==============+================================================+
     | Action       | Effect                                         |
     +==============+================================================+
     | Remove DNS   | New validations fail after resolver cache      |
     | record       | expiry; domain-owner action, no CA involvement |
     +--------------+------------------------------------------------+
     | Deactivate   | New validations fail immediately; overrides    |
     | ACME account | key retention (see Section 4.2)                |
     +--------------+------------------------------------------------+

                                  Table 1

   Independently of these actions, a CA MAY bound how long a record
   computed with a since-rotated key remains acceptable by advertising a
   keyRotationPeriod (see Section 4.3).  This bounds acceptance over
   time but is a routine lifecycle limit, not an immediate revocation
   mechanism.

   ACME Clients SHOULD provide clear mechanisms for users to:

   *  Remove the _validation-persist DNS TXT record.

   *  Monitor the presence and content of their _validation-persist
      records to ensure they accurately reflect desired authorization.

   Certificate Authorities (CAs) implementing this method MUST:

   *  During a validation attempt, fail the validation if the
      corresponding DNS TXT record is no longer present or if its
      content does not meet the requirements of this specification
      (e.g., incorrect issuer-domain-name, missing accounturi, altered
      policy).

   *  Respect the persistUntil constraint as specified in Section 4.1,
      rejecting new validation attempts after the specified timestamp
      even if the record remains present.

   *  Ensure their internal systems are capable of efficiently handling
      the validation failure when DNS records are removed or become
      invalid.

   While this method provides a persistent signal of control, the
   fundamental ACME authorization object (as defined in [RFC8555])
   remains subject to its own lifecycle, including expiration.  A
   persistent DNS record allows for repeated authorizations, but each
   authorization object issued by the CA will have a defined validity
   period, after which it expires unless renewed.

8.  IANA Considerations

8.1.  ACME Validation Methods Registry

   IANA is requested to register the following entry in the "ACME
   Validation Methods" registry:

   *  *Label*: dns-persist-01

   *  *Identifier Type*: dns

   *  *ACME*: Y

   *  *Reference*: This document

8.2.  Underscored and Globally Scoped DNS Node Names Registry

   IANA is requested to register the following entry in the "Underscored
   and Globally Scoped DNS Node Names" registry defined in [RFC8552]:

   *  *RR Type*: TXT

   *  *_NODE NAME*: _validation-persist

   *  *Reference*: This document

8.3.  ACME Directory Metadata Fields

   IANA is requested to register the following entries in the "Fields in
   the 'meta' Object within a Directory Object" registry defined in
   [RFC8555], Section 9.7.6:

   *  *Field Name*: accountHashPrefix

   *  *Field Type*: string

   *  *Reference*: This document

   *  *Field Name*: keyRotationPeriod

   *  *Field Type*: integer

   *  *Reference*: This document

9.  Implementation Considerations

   When designing future extensions to this specification, new
   parameters SHOULD be designed to degrade gracefully when ignored by
   CAs that do not recognize them.  Parameters that fundamentally change
   the security properties of the validation SHOULD NOT be introduced
   without a version negotiation mechanism.

9.1.  DNS Record Size Considerations

   The RDATA of the TXT record, which contains the issue-value, may
   become large, particularly if the accounturi is long.  While the
   total size of a TXT record's RDATA can be up to 65,535 octets, it
   must be formatted as a sequence of one or more character-strings,
   where each string is limited to 255 octets in length.

   *CA Implementation Guidelines:*

   *  CAs SHOULD endeavor to keep the accounturi values they generate
      reasonably concise to minimize the final record size.

   *Client Implementation Guidelines:*

   *  Clients MUST properly handle the creation of TXT records where the
      RDATA exceeds 255 octets.  As specified in [RFC1035],
      Section 3.3.14, clients MUST split the RDATA into multiple,
      concatenated, quote-enclosed strings, each no more than 255
      octets.  For example:

   _validation-persist.example.com. IN TXT ("first-255-bytes..."
   " ...remaining-bytes")

                  Figure 4: Multi-String TXT Record Format

   Failure to correctly format long RDATA values may result in
   validation failures.

9.2.  Domain Name Normalization Algorithm

   This section provides an algorithm for domain name normalization to
   promote interoperability.  Both clients and servers SHOULD follow a
   consistent normalization process to ensure that domain names are
   handled uniformly.

   The recommended normalization process consists of the following four
   steps, applied in order:

   1.  *Case-folding*: Apply Unicode-aware, locale-independent case-
       folding to the entire domain name string to convert it to
       lowercase.

   2.  *Unicode Normalization*: Normalize the string to Unicode
       Normalization Form C (NFC).

   3.  *Punycode Conversion*: Convert each label of the domain name to
       its A-label (Punycode) representation as specified in [RFC5890].

   4.  *Trailing Dot Removal*: Remove any trailing dot from the final
       string.

   For example, a domain name like EXAMPLE.com. is normalized as
   follows:

   1.  After case-folding: example.com.

   2.  After NFC normalization: example.com.

   3.  After Punycode conversion: example.com.

   4.  After removing trailing dot: example.com

   An internationalized domain name like üÑICODE-example.com. is
   normalized as follows:

   1.  After case-folding: ünicode-example.com.

   2.  After NFC normalization: ünicode-example.com.

   3.  After Punycode conversion: xn--nicode-example-9jb.com.

   4.  After removing trailing dot: xn--nicode-example-9jb.com

9.3.  CA Implementation Guidelines

   Certificate Authorities implementing this validation method should
   consider:

   *  Establishing clear policies for Issuer Domain Name disclosure in
      Certificate Policies and Certification Practice Statements

   *  Developing procedures for handling validation record TTL
      variations

   *  Creating account security monitoring and incident response
      procedures

   *  Providing clear documentation for clients on proper record
      construction

9.3.1.  Error Handling

   When implementing the "dns-persist-01" validation method, Certificate
   Authorities SHOULD return appropriate ACME error codes to provide
   clear feedback on validation failures.  Specifically:

   *  CAs SHOULD return a malformed error (as defined in [RFC8555]) when
      the TXT record has invalid syntax, such as duplicate parameters,
      invalid timestamp format in the persistUntil parameter, missing
      mandatory accounturi parameter, an accounturi that is not a well-
      formed hashed URI (for example, one not placed under the CA's
      accountHashPrefix, one using an algorithm identifier the CA does
      not accept, or one whose hash value is not valid base64url of the
      expected length), or other syntactic violations of the record
      format specified in this document.

   *  CAs SHOULD return an unauthorized error (as defined in [RFC8555])
      when validation fails due to authorization issues, including:

      -  The accounturi hashed URI in the DNS TXT record does not, when
         recomputed by the CA over the requesting account's retained
         keys (see Section 4.2), match any value the CA accepts for that
         account

      -  The persistUntil timestamp has expired, indicating that the
         validation record is no longer considered valid for new
         validation attempts

      -  The issuer-domain-name in the DNS TXT record does not match any
         of the values provided in the issuer-domain-names array of the
         challenge object

   Note that these error codes apply to validation attempts on specific
   challenges.  In the case of Just-in-Time Validation (see
   Section 4.5), when a CA finds a pre-existing DNS TXT record that does
   not meet validation requirements, the CA proceeds with the standard
   authorization flow by issuing a new pending challenge rather than
   returning an error.

   These error codes help ACME clients distinguish between different
   types of validation failures and take appropriate corrective actions.

9.4.  Client Implementation Guidelines

   ACME clients implementing this validation method should consider:

   *  Implementing secure DNS record management practices

   *  Providing clear user interfaces for managing persistent validation
      records

   *  Implementing validation record monitoring and alerting

   *  Designing appropriate error handling for validation failures

   *  Considering the security implications of persistent records in
      their threat models

9.5.  DNS Provider Considerations

   DNS providers supporting this validation method should consider:

   *  Implementing appropriate access controls for validation record
      management

   *  Providing audit logging for validation record changes

   *  Supporting reasonable TTL values for validation records

   *  Considering dedicated interfaces or APIs for ACME validation
      record management

10.  Examples

10.1.  Basic Validation Example (FQDN Only)

   For validation of "example.com" by a CA using "authority.example" as
   its Issuer Domain Name, where the validation should only apply to
   "example.com":

   1.  CA provides challenge object with a list of valid Issuer Domain
       Names:

      {
        "type": "dns-persist-01",
        "url": "https://ca.example/acme/authz/1234/0",
        "status": "pending",
        "issuer-domain-names": ["authority.example", "ca.example.net"]
      }

   2.  Client chooses one of the provided Issuer Domain Names (e.g.,
       "authority.example"), computes its hashed URI as shown in
       Section 10.2, and provisions a DNS TXT record (note the absence
       of a policy parameter for scope):

      _validation-persist.example.com. IN TXT ("authority.example;"
      " accounturi=https://ca.example/account-hash/"
      "sha-256/M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0")

   3.  CA validates the record through DNS queries.  This validation is
       sufficient only for "example.com".

10.2.  Hashed-URI Example

   This example validates "example.com" using a hashed URI (Section 4.1)
   and serves as a test vector.  The hash inputs are:

   *  length_of_domain: 0x0b (the domain example.com is 11 octets)

   *  domain_name: example.com

   *  key: the 32 octets of the account's current SHA-256 JWK Thumbprint
      [RFC7638], whose base64url form is NzbLsXh8uDCcd-
      6MNwXF4W_7noWXFZAfHkxZsRGC9Xs (the example thumbprint from
      [RFC7638], Section 3.1; the 32 octets it decodes to are the hash
      input)

   *  account_URL: https://ca.example/acct/123

   Computing SHA-256(length_of_domain || domain_name || key ||
   account_URL) and applying unpadded base64url encoding to the 32-octet
   digest yields:

   M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0

   With a CA accountHashPrefix of https://ca.example/account-hash/ and
   the sha-256 algorithm identifier, the hashed URI is
   https://ca.example/account-hash/sha-256/
   M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0.  Using issuer domain
   name "authority.example", the client provisions:

   _validation-persist.example.com. IN TXT ("authority.example;"
   " accounturi=https://ca.example/account-hash/"
   "sha-256/M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0")

                   Figure 5: Hashed-URI Validation Record

   To instead opt out of the domain-correlation mitigation
   (Section 4.1), the client sets domain_name to the single octet * (so
   length_of_domain is 0x01), keeping the same key and account_URL.
   Computing SHA-256(0x01 || "*" || key || account_URL) yields:

   e1LAS3jDQlasvXxK1Zx7iOfP6OOINz4T6vHaxwfdUrs

   The resulting hashed URI, https://ca.example/account-hash/sha-256/
   e1LAS3jDQlasvXxK1Zx7iOfP6OOINz4T6vHaxwfdUrs, does not depend on the
   domain and MAY be reused across domains.

10.3.  Wildcard Validation Example

   For validation of "*.example.com" (which also validates "example.com"
   and specific subdomains like "www.example.com") by a CA using
   "authority.example" as its Issuer Domain Name:

   1.  The CA provides a challenge object similar to the basic example,
       containing an issuer-domain-names array.

   2.  Client chooses one of the provided Issuer Domain Names (e.g.,
       "authority.example") and provisions a DNS TXT record at the base
       domain's Validation Domain Name, including policy=wildcard:

       _validation-persist.example.com. IN TXT ("authority.example;"
       " accounturi=https://ca.example/account-hash/"
       "sha-256/M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0;"
       " policy=wildcard")

                  Figure 6: Wildcard Policy Validation Record

   3.  CA validates the record through DNS queries.  This validation
       authorizes certificates for "example.com", "*.example.com", and
       specific subdomains like "www.example.com".

10.4.  Validation Example with persistUntil

   For validation of "example.com" with an explicit expiration date:

   1.  The CA provides a challenge object similar to the basic example,
       containing an issuer-domain-names array.

   2.  Client chooses one of the provided Issuer Domain Names (e.g.,
       "authority.example") and provisions a DNS TXT record including
       persistUntil:

       _validation-persist.example.com. IN TXT ("authority.example;"
       " accounturi=https://ca.example/account-hash/"
       "sha-256/M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0;"
       " persistUntil=1721952000")

                Figure 7: Validation Record with Expiration Time

   3.  CA validates the record.  This validation is sufficient only for
       "example.com" and will not be considered valid after the
       specified timestamp (2024-07-26T00:00:00Z).

10.5.  Wildcard Validation Example with persistUntil

   For validation of "*.example.com" with an explicit expiration date:

   1.  The CA provides a challenge object similar to the basic example,
       containing an issuer-domain-names array.

   2.  Client chooses one of the provided Issuer Domain Names (e.g.,
       "authority.example") and provisions a DNS TXT record including
       policy=wildcard and persistUntil:

       _validation-persist.example.com. IN TXT ("authority.example;"
       " accounturi=https://ca.example/account-hash/"
       "sha-256/M9kxVytPS5TjeZXE2xfl9Op4PG8ditvR-2rlQ8GwOf0;"
       " policy=wildcard;"
       " persistUntil=1721952000")

           Figure 8: Wildcard Validation Record with Expiration Time

   3.  CA validates the record.  This validation authorizes certificates
       for "example.com", "*.example.com", and specific subdomains, but
       will not be considered valid after the specified timestamp
       (2024-07-26T00:00:00Z).

11.  References

11.1.  Normative References

   [FIPS180-4]
              National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST),
              "Secure Hash Standard (SHS)", FIPS PUB 180-4, August 2015,
              <https://doi.org/10.6028/NIST.FIPS.180-4>.

   [RFC8555]  Barnes, R., Hoffman-Andrews, J., McCarney, D., and J.
              Kasten, "Automatic Certificate Management Environment
              (ACME)", RFC 8555, DOI 10.17487/RFC8555, March 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8555>.

   [RFC8659]  Hallam-Baker, P., Stradling, R., and J. Hoffman-Andrews,
              "DNS Certification Authority Authorization (CAA) Resource
              Record", RFC 8659, DOI 10.17487/RFC8659, November 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8659>.

   [RFC8657]  Landau, H., "Certification Authority Authorization (CAA)
              Record Extensions for Account URI and Automatic
              Certificate Management Environment (ACME) Method Binding",
              RFC 8657, DOI 10.17487/RFC8657, November 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8657>.

   [RFC2119]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate
              Requirement Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119,
              DOI 10.17487/RFC2119, March 1997,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc2119>.

   [RFC8174]  Leiba, B., "Ambiguity of Uppercase vs Lowercase in RFC
              2119 Key Words", BCP 14, RFC 8174, DOI 10.17487/RFC8174,
              May 2017, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8174>.

   [RFC5890]  Klensin, J., "Internationalized Domain Names for
              Applications (IDNA): Definitions and Document Framework",
              RFC 5890, DOI 10.17487/RFC5890, August 2010,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc5890>.

   [RFC4648]  Josefsson, S., "The Base16, Base32, and Base64 Data
              Encodings", RFC 4648, DOI 10.17487/RFC4648, October 2006,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4648>.

   [RFC1035]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and
              specification", STD 13, RFC 1035, DOI 10.17487/RFC1035,
              November 1987, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc1035>.

   [RFC7638]  Jones, M. and N. Sakimura, "JSON Web Key (JWK)
              Thumbprint", RFC 7638, DOI 10.17487/RFC7638, September
              2015, <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc7638>.

   [RFC3986]  Berners-Lee, T., Fielding, R., and L. Masinter, "Uniform
              Resource Identifier (URI): Generic Syntax", STD 66,
              RFC 3986, DOI 10.17487/RFC3986, January 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc3986>.

   [RFC8552]  Crocker, D., "Scoped Interpretation of DNS Resource
              Records through "Underscored" Naming of Attribute Leaves",
              BCP 222, RFC 8552, DOI 10.17487/RFC8552, March 2019,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc8552>.

11.2.  Informative References

   [birgelee-sc082-security]
              Birge-Lee, H., "Security of SC-082 Redux", 2025.

   [cabf-br]  "Baseline Requirements for the Issuance and Management of
              Publicly-Trusted TLS Server Certificates", 2025,
              <https://cabforum.org/baseline-requirements-documents/>.

   [RFC4033]  Arends, R., Austein, R., Larson, M., Massey, D., and S.
              Rose, "DNS Security Introduction and Requirements",
              RFC 4033, DOI 10.17487/RFC4033, March 2005,
              <https://www.rfc-editor.org/info/rfc4033>.

Acknowledgments

   The authors acknowledge prior community work that directly informed
   this specification:

   *  The CA/Browser Forum ballot proposals to enable persistent /
      static DNS Domain Control Validation signals in the Baseline
      Requirements [cabf-br], in particular Ballot SC-082 ("Clarify CA
      Assisted DNS Validation under 3.2.2.4.7", authored by Michael
      Slaughter) and the active proposal SC-088 ("DNS TXT Record with
      Persistent Value DCV Method", also authored by Michael Slaughter).
      These efforts provided the policy framing and initial industry
      discussion motivating standardization of a reusable ACME DNS
      validation record.

   *  The formal and empirical security analysis of static / persistent
      DCV methods performed by Henry Birge-Lee ("Proof of static DCV
      security" presentation, the "Security of SC-082 Redux" paper
      [birgelee-sc082-security], and related research), which helped
      clarify the threat model and informed the security considerations
      in this document.

   *  The Delegated DNS Domain Validation (DDDV) Threat Modeling Tiger
      Team discussions and document ("Validation SC - Delegated DNS
      Domain Validation (DDDV) Threat Model"), whose participants
      contributed to broad threat enumeration; notable contributors
      include Michael Slaughter (Amazon Trust Services), Corey Bonnell
      (DigiCert), Clint Wilson (Apple), and Martijn Katerbarg (Sectigo).

   The authors also thank members of the ACME Working Group and CA/
   Browser Forum who provided early review, critique, and operational
   perspectives on persistent validation records.

   Any errors or omissions are the responsibility of the authors.

Change Log

   RFC Editor: please remove this section before publication.

Since draft-ietf-acme-dns-persist-01

   *  The accounturi is now a hashed URI that cryptographically binds
      the ACME account to the domain being validated.  In -01 the
      accounturi was the ACME account URL, or another URI that uniquely
      and permanently identified a single account ([RFC8657],
      Section 5.4), with no cryptographic binding; that form is no
      longer accepted.

   *  Defined the hashed URI as <accountHashPrefix><hash-alg>/<base64url
      hash value>, advertised via the new accountHashPrefix directory
      metadata field and carrying an in-URI hash-algorithm identifier
      for algorithm agility (sha-256 defined here, using [FIPS180-4]).

   *  Specified the digest as H(length_of_domain || domain_name ||
      key || account_URL), with a leading length octet delimiting the
      domain name.

   *  Added a mandatory domain-omitted opt-out (domain_name set to *)
      for correlation opt-out and cross-domain record reuse.

   *  Specified CA key retention as a data-retention obligation with
      ranked precedence (deactivation overrides certificate-backed
      retention overrides general retention); account deactivation is an
      immediate override.

   *  Added the keyRotationPeriod directory metadata field.

Authors' Addresses

   Shiloh Heurich
   Fastly
   Email: sheurich@fastly.com


   Henry Birge-Lee
   Crosslayer Labs, Inc.
   Email: henry@crosslayerlabs.com


   Michael Slaughter
   Amazon Trust Services
   Email: slghtr@amazon.com
